What's New - .NET 10 Preview 1 (#44878)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/whats-new/dotnet-10/overview.md

---
title: What's new in .NET 10
description: Learn about the new features introduced in .NET 10 for the runtime, libraries, and SDK. Also find links to what's new in other areas, such as ASP.NET Core.
titleSuffix: ""
ms.date: 02/20/2025
ms.topic: whats-new
ai-usage: ai-assisted
---

# What's new in .NET 10

Learn about the new features in .NET 10 and find links to further documentation. This page has been updated for Preview 1.

> .NET 10, the successor to [.NET 9](../dotnet-9/overview.md), has a special focus on cloud-native apps and performance. It will be [supported for 3 years](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core) as a long-term support (LTS) release. You can [download .NET 10 here](https://get.dot.net/10).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET 10, the successor to [.NET 9](../dotnet-9/overview.md) and will be [supported for 3 years](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core) as a long-term support (LTS) release. You can [download .NET 10 here](https://get.dot.net/10).
```

I think we should remove the focus areas. We should leave that style of positioning to blog posts (and haven't done so yet).

---
title: What's new in .NET 10

> description: Learn about the new .NET features introduced in .NET 10 for the runtime, libraries, and SDK. Also find links to what's new in other areas, such as ASP.NET Core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Learn about the new features introduced in .NET 10 for the runtime, libraries, and SDK. Also find links to what's new in other areas, such as ASP.NET Core.
```

titleSuffix: ""

> ms.date: 02/12/2025

Reviewer 2: Might push the date out a bit.

Reviewer 3: I was wondering this as well. I'd set it to the ship date for the preview before merging.

ms.topic: whats-new
---

# What's new in .NET 10

> Learn about the new features in .NET 10 and find links to further documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn about the new features in .NET 10 and find links to further documentation. This page has been updated for Preview 1.
```

---
title: What's new in .NET 10
description: Learn about the new features introduced in .NET 10 for the runtime, libraries, and SDK. Also find links to what's new in other areas, such as ASP.NET Core.
titleSuffix: ""
ms.date: 02/20/2025
ms.topic: whats-new
ai-usage: ai-assisted
---

# What's new in .NET 10

Learn about the new features in .NET 10 and find links to further documentation. This page has been updated for Preview 1.

## .NET runtime

> .NET 10, the successor to [.NET 9](../dotnet-9/overview.md), has a special focus on cloud-native apps and performance. It will be [supported for 3 years](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core) as a long-term support (LTS) release. You can [download .NET 10 here](https://get.dot.net/10).

Reviewer 2: This isn't specific to the runtime, so don't think it belongs in this section.

> Your feedback is important and appreciated. We've created a discussion on [GitHub](https://github.com/dotnet/core/discussions/categories/news) for your questions and comments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your feedback is important and appreciated. If you have questions or comments, please use the discussion on [GitHub](https://github.com/dotnet/core/discussions/categories/news).
```

Reviewer 2: But also pull it out of the runtime section.

Additionally, a new <xref:System.TimeSpan.FromMilliseconds*?displayProperty=nameWithType> overload that takes a single parameter has been added. The performance and memory usage of [ZipArchive](xref:System.IO.Compression.ZipArchive) have been improved. New `TryAdd` and `TryGetValue` overloads for <xref:System.Collections.Generic.OrderedDictionary`2?displayProperty=nameWithType> now return an index to the entry. JSON serialization has been enhanced by allowing the specification of <xref:System.Text.Json.Serialization.ReferenceHandler> in <xref:System.Text.Json.Serialization.JsonSourceGenerationOptionsAttribute>. Lastly, new APIs have been introduced for creating left-handed transformation matrices for billboard and constrained-billboard matrices.

For more information, see [What's new in the .NET 10 libraries](libraries.md).

## .NET SDK

The .NET 10 SDK introduces following new features and enhancements:

- [Pruning of Framework-provided Package References](sdk.md#pruning-of-framework-provided-package-references)

For more information, see [What's new in the SDK for .NET 10](sdk.md).

## .NET Aspire

> .NET Aspire releases version 9.1, which focuses on quality of life fixes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.NET Aspire releases version 9.1, which focuses on quality-of-life fixes.
```

- Miscellaneous: Added better support for testing apps with top-level statements and a new helper method for detecting local URLs.

For more information, see [What's new in ASP.NET Core for .NET 10](/aspnet/core/release-notes/aspnetcore-10.0).

## .NET MAUI

<!-- TODO - Add a brief overview of the new features in .NET MAUI for .NET 10. -->

## EF Core

Changes for EF Core 10 include:

- LINQ and SQL translation enhancements.
- ExecuteUpdateAsync now accepts a regular, non-expression lambda.

For more information, see [What's new in EF Core for .NET 10](/ef/core/what-is-new/ef-core-10.0/whatsnew).

## C# 14

C# 14 introduces several new features and enhancements to improve developer productivity and code quality. Some of the key updates include:

- `nameof` in unbound generics.
- Implicit span conversions.
- `field` backed properties.
- Modifiers on simple lambda parameters.
- Experimental feature - String literals in data section.

For more information, see [What's new in C# 14](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/dotnet10p1/release-notes/10.0/preview/preview1/csharp.md).

## Windows Forms

Changes in Windows Forms for .NET 10 include:

> - Clipboard related serialization and deserialization changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Clipboard-related serialization and deserialization changes.
```

- Obsoleted Clipboard APIs.

> - New Clipboard related APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- New Clipboard-related APIs.
```

> For more information, see [What's new in Windows Forms for .NET 10](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/dotnet10p1/release-notes/10.0/preview/preview1/winforms.md).

Reviewer 2: The link should be updated once Andy publishes.
